bbidot@student.ethz.ch
wolffy@student.ethz.ch
lionelt@student.ethz.ch

Preprocessing


Features
histograms, peakintensities, peakfrequencies, slices, cubes, fourieranalysis

Model
ridgeregression, supportvectormachine

Description

Preprocessing
No preprocessing has been done.

Features
We extracted 2 type of features: intensities and frequencies of histograms; and peaks of histograms.
1) We first computed a global histogram with 200 bins for each image. Using a peak detection algorithm, we determined the main peaks of each histogram (as the algorithm was not working perfectly and by lack of time, we had to perform a manual check). There were always 2 or 3 peaks. By considering the last 2 peaks (i.e. the 2 peaks with highest pixel intensities), we extracted both their associated pixel intensity and pixel frequency. This gave us 4 features per image.
2) We then divided each image into 48 2-dimensional slices (16 slices per direction) where we averaged the pixels in one specific direction in order to have surfaces and not cubes. Thus, this generated 48 slices. We then determined their histograms, with 48 bins of same length, and extracted as features the associated frequencies. This gave us 48*48 = 2304 features per image.
That's why we had at the end 2308 features in total per image.
We tried 2 other approaches which were not conclusive: a Fourier analysis to get insight on the variance of the pixels and generating histograms from cubes instead of slices to have more local features.

Model
We tried a SVM classification but this didn't give us good results. We decided to change for a Ridge regression. Our cross-validation didn't give good results which made us think that our program was not correct. Thus, we had to optimize manually in order to determine the best regularizer.

Postprocessing
The Ridge regression gave us predictions for the 138 patient test. We applied a final postprocessing to these predictions. Qualitative analysis of the histograms plotted showed that a significant number of patients with only 2 peaks were healthy. Because the error on this observation was really low and lacking time for a more complex decision rule, we decided to apply this simple rule: images whose global histograms present only 2 peaks would be labelled 1 (i.e. healthy). Finally, because we didn't want any label outside of [0, 1], we forced predictions below 0 to 0 and predictions above 1 to 1.
